One: Okay. So let's talk about how to
use the Linux command line. Now, the CS50
IDE, or in fact, the CS50 Appliance, if
you're familiar with that or you're taking an
older version of CS50, is a cloud based
machine which runs Ubuntu, which is one of
the many flavors of the Linux operating system.
Linux operating system is favored by programmers because
it's just cooler, right? Many modern Linux distributions
have graphical user interfaces, which we also call
GUIs, GUI, to allow easy mouse based navigation,
which you're probably familiar with if you're a
Windows or Mac user, moving around your mouse,
double clicking on icons, and so on. Still
though, as a programmer, and even though the
IDE contains the ability to do some graphical
user stuff, clicking and dragging and all that,
you'll still be using your terminal window pretty
frequently. And you can do many of the
same tasks that you can do with a
mouse with keyboard commands. And we're going to
talk a little bit about what some of
those commands are right now. Now these commands
can be used on any Unix based operating
system, which includes Linux, but also includes Mac
OS. If you, open up Terminal on your
Mac, you can use these exact commands. Windows
also has command prompt, but some of the
commands are slightly different. It doesn't actually work
because Windows is not a Unix based system.
So let's take a look at some of
these Linux commands. The first one that you'll
probably use quite a lot is ls. That's
a lowercase l followed by a lowercase s,
which is short for list. Now what the
list command does is it gives you a
readout of all the files and folders in
your current directory. So you can see everything
you can get to from where you currently
are. So I've opened up here the CS50
IDE. And I'm going zoom in in a
second to give you a closer look. Here's
the broad picture of what the IDE looks
like. On the left, can see we have
a file tree, which you're probably familiar with,
double clicking and files and folders and all
that stuff. So that's still there on the
CS50 appliance. At the center and the top
is where you're going to be writing your
code once you click on a file. And
at the bottom we have a terminal window,
which is where we can execute these terminal
commands. I'm going to zoom in and head
over here just to show you that in
fact I can click on these files and
folders. So clearly where I currently am, I
have two folders called pset0 and pset1, and
three files, one called hello, one called hello.
C, and one called hello. Txt. So let's
move down to the terminal window and get
a closer look. So we just talked again
about the fact that we have three files
and two folders in the current directory. If
I type ls, which again is the command
to list the contents of the current directory,
and then I hit Enter, look what I
see. Hello, hello dot c, hello dot text,
pset zero, and pset one. Pset zero and
pset one are colored blue to indicate to
you that those are directories that we could
navigate into. And we'll learn a little bit
about how to navigate into directories in a
minute. And every other thing is colored black
if it's a text file or a source
code file, and green if it's an executable
file. So clearly that means that I could
run a program called hello. That's what the
green one there means. But basically, typing the
ls command has allowed me to look at
everything that exists in my current directory, which
matches what we see here in the graphical
display the same. The next command you probably
use quite a bit is cd, Lowercase c,
lowercase d, which is short for change directory.
This allows us to do what I was
just talking about a second ago, which is
to navigate between directories at the command line
as opposed to double clicking on folders. So
if we type c d and then the
name of a directory, we can get into
that directory. As an aside, know that the
name of the current directory is always dot,
and the name of the directory one level
above where we are now, that is the
name of the folder in which our folder
is, is dot dot, or in which our
folder is, is dot dot. And if you're
ever curious about the name of your directory,
you can type pwd, which stands for present
working directory. We'll take a look at all
of these now by heading back to the
CS50 IDE. So I'm back in my workspace
now, and I'll zoom in again on the
terminal so we can take a look at
moving around within the IDE. So I'm going
to list the contents of my directory again
just to reground us in where we are.
So if I type ls, which is for
list again, I see that I can get
to pset zero and pset one. Those are
the directories I can get to from here.
I know that because the IDE gives me
a clue by coloring them blue. Let's say
that I want to get into my pset
one directory, because I'm working on problem set
one. I can type c d, again short
for change directory, space, pset one. And if
I hit Enter, notice what happens. It doesn't
look like a lot has happened, but if
you look at the prompt, it now tells
me that I'm in tilde slash workspace slash
pset1. I've navigated into the pset1 folder that
was within my workspace. And if I type
ls, I see some different stuff here, right?
This isn't the same list that I saw
before. I've navigated into pset1, and so now
when I type ls, I'm getting the context
of what can I see from within the
pset1 folder? Now I'm going to type control
l, which just clears the screen. And I'm
going to list the content of the directory
again, just so you can see. I just
wanted to do that to clear out some
of the stuff that you saw down below
and to prevent this from going too far
down out of range. Now I said earlier
that if I want to navigate to the
current directory, I can type cd space dot
and hit Enter. It doesn't do anything, right?
I'm changing directories to the current directory. You're
not always going to find a need for
single dot, but you will occasionally. Let's say
that I want to move up one level.
I want to get back to my workspace
directory. I can't type cd workspace. There's no
such file or directory. And the reason for
that, if I type ls one more time,
is that there's no directory called workspace inside
of my pset1 directory. I'm going clear my
screen again with Control L. Remember what I
said earlier, though, that we can navigate back
with dot dot? That's the name of the
parent directory. So if I type c d
space dot dot and then hit Enter, now
look at what happened. My command prompt tells
me that I'm back in my tilde slash
workspace directory. I moved up one level, thanks
to dot dot. Now let's say that I'm
using an operating system that is Linux based,
but doesn't necessarily tell me where I am.
This one happens to tell us that I'm
in tilde slash workspace right now, right at
the prompt. But I could be completely lost
in a mess of folders, and I have
no idea where I am and no idea
where I want to get back to. There's
two things I can do. First of all,
I can figure out where I am by
typing pwd. That's my present working directory. And
if I hit Enter, it tells me exactly
where I am. Now slash home slash ubuntu
is the long way of saying tilde, which
is your home directory. But it tells me
that I'm in home Ubuntu workspace or tilde
slash workspace. I'm going to navigate to my
pset1 directory again. And I'm going to list
the contents. And I see that I have
another directory there called extras. So I'm going
to cd into extras, and then I'm going
to clear my screen. So now I'm pretty
far in, right? What if I want to
get back to workspace immediately? There's a couple
of things I could do. I could type
cd dot dot slash dot dot to move
up one level and then another level, But
that's kind of annoying. So if I ever
want to get back to just my home
directory, tilde, I can type cd with nothing
after it. Cd enter, and now I'm in
tilde. And then if I want to get
to workspace, I can just type cd workspace.
And that's how you work changing directories within
the CS50 IDE, or any Linux operating system,
at the command line. All right. The next
one that might come in handy is mkdir,
which is short for make a directory. If
I need to create a new folder, if
you're familiar with a GUI operating system, you
might right click, and then when the context
menu pops up, choose New Folder. That's probably
how you've done it before. But we can
also create directories at the command line. So
we're back in the IDE. I'll zoom in
on the terminal and list the contents of
my directory again just to get us back
just give us a frame of reference. Let's
say that now I finished working on problem
set zero and problem set one, so I
want to create a new directory to work
on for problem set two. How do I
do that? Well, again, I could right click
on the left side there and choose New
Folder and create a pset two directory. That
would work, too. But I can also do
it at the command line pretty quickly by
typing mkdir, space I typed an n, but
space pset2. If I hit Enter, and then
I list the contents of my directory again,
I see that, look, now I have a
pset2 folder. And I can navigate into that
using cd and do all the work I
need to do for pset2. Incidentally, I'll just
pop over here really quickly to the file
tree, and you can see that also in
the graphical file explorer, we can see that
the pset2 directory has also been created there.
And I can navigate to it using the
GUI as well. The next command that's probably
going to come in handy is cp, which
is short for copy. Copy, unlike the other
commands we've seen before, takes two arguments, a
source, the name of the file that you
want to copy, and a destination, where you
want to copy the file to. It's pretty
easy to copy a file, so let's do
that. So we're back in the IDE. I'm
going to list the contents of my current
directory with ls. Now let's say that I
want to make a copy of hello. Txt.
Again, from the file tree on the left,
the graphical interface, I could right click on
hello. Txt, make a copy, paste the copy.
But I can do it pretty quickly at
the command line, Let's say I want to
copy hello. Txt to hi. Txt. I can
cp space hello. Txt. That's my source file,
so that's why I'm going to choose that
one first. And then I need to name
the destination file, hi. Txt. I hit Enter.
And if I list the contents of my
directory again, there's hi. Txt. I made a
copy of it. And in fact, if I
went into hi. Txt, could see that it
would be an exact duplicate of everything that
existed in my hello. Txt file. So that's
how you copy a file. But what if
you want to copy an entire directory? So
for a second, let's take a look at
what's in my pset zero directory. If I
cd pset zero and list the contents, I
have a directory called sample and a Scratch
file, scratch. Sb2. So that's good to know.
So let's clear the screen, and I'm going
to go back to my workspace directory for
a second. Let's say that now I want
to make a copy of my pset zero
directory. I can't just say cp pset0 pset3,
for instance. You get this weird message, omitting
directory pset0. Why do you get that message?
Well, turns out that when you have a
directory that has other stuff inside of it,
the cp command doesn't really necessarily know what
to do with it. We to explicitly tell
Linux, the terminal, I want you to copy
the pset zero directory and copy every folder
that exists inside of it, and every file
that exists inside of it. In other words,
I need you to recursively dive down into
pset0 and make a copy of everything in
there. If I want to do that, what
I can do is cp dash r for
recursive, pset zero, pset three, hit Enter. Now
if I list the contents of my directory,
I see there's the pset three directory that
I can work with. And if I cd
into pset3 now, and then list the contents,
look, there's sample and Scratch. Sp2 again. So
that's pretty cool. So that's how you can
copy an entire directory, and not just a
single file. So if you want to copy
a directory, just remember to use the dash
r flag when you're working with the cp
command. All right. So I've copied a file,
but I've done it by mistake. And now
I want to get rid of it. How
do I do that? Again, if you're familiar
with a GUI interface, you can right click
and just choose delete, and they'll send it
to the trash or the recycle bin. But
at the command line, can just type rm
for remove, and then the name of the
file we want to get rid of. Now
rm is very careful. Does a lot of
double checking to make sure that you actually
want to delete the file. It doesn't want
to make any mistakes because there's no recycle
bin here. Once we delete a file, it's
gone, there's really no way to recover it.
So we need to be pretty careful, and
so RM is going be really careful for
us. So let's go back to the IDE
and get rid of that hi. Txt file
that I created a minute ago with copy.
So we're in the IDE, and I'm going
to list the contents of my directory again
just to give us some context. And we
can see that there's hi. Txt, which I
created a little while ago. Now I want
to get rid of it. How do I
do it? Again, it's just rm. So I
can type rm hi dot txt and hit
Enter. And there's rm being really careful for
us and making sure we actually want to
delete this file. Do you really want to
remove regular empty file hi dot txt? That's
just like an operating system like Windows or
Mac that you might be familiar with popping
up that box that says, are you really
sure you want to do this? I'm pretty
sure I want to do this. So I'm
going to type yes, or I could also
just type y and hit Enter. And if
I list the contents of my directory again,
hi. Txt is gone. Not bad, right? Let's
press Control L just to get rid of
all this stuff and get us back at
the top of the screen. Now, there is
a way to short circuit RM so that
it doesn't ask us that question. We really
know we want to get rid of that
file, and we don't even want to be
asked the question. How do we do that?
Well, we can specify an extra flag, just
like we did with cp, where we could
add the -r flag to recursively copy into
a directory. There's another flag for rm, which
is dash f, which is to force rm
to do exactly what we're telling it to
do. So let's say that now I want
to get rid of my hello dot txt
file. I don't want that one either. What
can I do? Well, I can r m
dash f hello. Txt. What do you think
is going to happen here? It's gone. It
didn't even ask me the question. And in
fact, if I list the contents of my
directory again, it's gone. There's no undo here.
Hello dot text is gone, and I wasn't
even asked if I wanted to delete it.
What if I want to get rid of
an entire directory? The way you do that
is very similar to copy. If you want
to delete a directory, you don't just want
to delete the directory. You want to delete
everything inside of it. And so you use
dash r to recursively delete a directory. So
that's r m dash r pset2. I'm not
actually working on pset2, so I can get
rid of that directory. I hit Enter. Do
I want to remove the directory pset2? Yes,
I do. And if I list the contents
of my directory again, it's gone. All right?
One more variation on this theme. So I'll
clear the screen again to put everything at
the top. Hit ls. Now I want to
get rid of my pset3 directory, and I
really know I want to get rid of
my pset3 directory. I can recursively and forcibly
remove my pset3 directory. Now you're going to
be really careful when you're using rm dash
rf. As you program more, it'll be something
you just do really quickly. And in fact,
I do it all the time, but it
can lead to some disastrous consequences if you
accidentally delete the wrong thing. So I want
you to be aware that this is an
option available to you, but use it sparingly
and use it with caution. I know for
a fact I'm not working on my problem
set three anymore, so I'm going to get
rid of all of those files. And I
know I don't I don't want to be
asked every single time if I want to
delete a file. So I'm going to rm
dash rf pset3. Didn't even ask me if
I wanted to get rid of it. I
hit ls. Pset3 is gone. So that's all
the variations that you can use to get
rid of files with rm. The last command
line command that's going to be pretty useful
for you is mv, which is short for
move. Move is basically equivalent to rename. It
moves a file from one location to another,
the source to the destination. Let's see where
using a move might be handy at the
terminal window. So I'm in my pset1 directory,
and I've noticed something has gone a little
wrong. I was working on my greedy problem,
but I accidentally named it greedy. So when
I try and run it through check 50,
it doesn't really work. I do have a
couple of options. We could do what we've
done before, which is to make a copy
of the file. I could copy greedy. C
to greedy. C. Right? Hit enter. I see
that both files are there. And then I
could r m to remove greedy. C. That
gets rid of it. So that would work
after I confirm that I want to get
rid of it. And I effectively have renamed
greedy. C to greedy. C. I copied it,
and then removed the original. But that's a
multi step process, and certainly there's a better
way. In fact, there is. So let's hit
Control L just to bring this back up
and list the contents of my directory again.
So let's say, oh, you know, made a
mistake. I actually really did want to call
that file greedy. C. In one fell swoop,
I can type move greedy. C to greedy.
C, hit Enter. And now I didn't have
to copy and remove it. I just was
able to rename it, One Stop Shopping. Now
there are a lot of other basic command
line utilities that you can use at the
Linux command line. And we'll be discussing a
lot of them in the future in CS50.
But for now, just getting your feet wet
with working with this terminal environment, these five
commands should get you pretty far in navigating
around and working with files in your IDE
or on whatever Linux based operating system you're
using. If you're curious and you want to
look ahead a little bit at some of
the command line commands we'll be using in
the future, here's a list of a couple
of the more common ones. I'm Doug Lloyd.
This is CS50.